---
title: Motion
description:
navigation.icon: 'uil:hospital-symbol'
island: true
---

The `Motion` component is the primary building block for animations in Motion for Vue. It can be rendered as any HTML or SVG element by using the as prop, such as `<Motion as="div"/>` or `<Motion as="circle"/>`. Alternatively, you can pass `asChild` to render a child component directly.

## Import

```ts
import { Motion } from 'motion-v'
```

```vue
  <Motion
    as="div"
    class="w-10 h-10 bg-primary rounded-lg"
    :initial="{
      opacity:0
    }"
    :animate="{
      opacity:1
    }"
  />
```

## Basic Usage

<ComponentPreview name="basic"  />

## Keyframes

Set a value as an array and Motion will animate through each of these values in turn.

By default, each keyframe will be spaced evenly throughout the animation, but the exact timing and easing can be configured via the transition property.

<ComponentPreview name="keyframes"  />

## Variants

Variants are pre-defined visual states that a component can be in. By giving a component and its children `variants` with matching names, whole Vue trees can be animated by changing a single prop.

<ComponentPreview name="variants"  />

## Gestures Animation

Motion provides `hover`, `press` helper props, that will temporarily animate a component to a visual state while a gesture is active.

Like `animate`, these can either be set as an object of properties (each with their own transition prop), or the name of a variant.

<ComponentPreview name="gestures"  />

## NameSpace

Motion provides a namespace for each HTML and SVG element, similar to motion/react. This allows you to use elements directly without the `as` prop:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
import { motion } from 'motion-v'
</script>

<template>
  <motion.div
    :initial="{ opacity: 0 }"
    :animate="{ opacity: 1 }"
  />
</template>
```

for Component, You can also use `motion.create` to create a motion version of any custom component:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
import { motion } from 'motion-v'
import Component from './Component.vue'

const MotionComponent = motion.create(Component)
</script>

<template>
  <MotionComponent
    :initial="{ opacity: 0 }"
    :animate="{ opacity: 1 }"
  />
</template>
```

## InView

The `inView` prop to set a component to animate when it enters the viewport.

<ComponentPreview name="in-view"  />

## Props

### `initial`
The initial visual state of the `Motion` component.

This can be set as an animation target:

```vue
<Motion
  :initial="{
    opacity:0,x:0
  }"
/>
```
> or set a string to target a variant:

```vue
<Motion
  initial="variantName"
  :variants="{
    variantName: {
      opacity:0,x:0
    }
  }"
/>
```
> or set `false` to disable the initial animation:

```vue
<Motion
  :initial="false"
/>
```

### `animate`

the `animate` prop is used to set the animation target. When the component is mounted or the animate prop is updated, it will animate to the animate target.

```vue
<Motion
  :animate="{
    opacity:1,x:100
  }"
/>
```

> or set a string to target a variant:

```vue
<Motion
  animate="variantName"
  :variants="{
    variantName: {
      opacity:1,x:100
    }
  }"
/>
```

### `custom`

The `custom` prop is used to pass through to dynamic variants.

<ComponentPreview name="custom"  />

### `transition`

The `transition` prop is used to set the transition of the animation.

```vue
<Motion
  :initial="{ x: 0, opacity: 0 }"
  :animate="{ x: 100, opacity: 1 }"
  :transition="{
    duration: 1,
    x: { type: 'spring', stiffness: 260, damping: 20 },
  }"
/>
```

### `inViewOptions`

The `inViewOptions` prop is used to set the options for the `inView` prop.

```vue
<Motion
  :in-view-options="{
    once: true,
  }"
/>
```
#### `margin`

Default: `0`

The `margin` option allows you to set the `margin` around the component that should be in view for the animation to trigger.

```vue
<Motion
  :in-view="{ x: 0 }"
  :in-view-options="{ margin: 100 }"
/>
```

#### `once`

Default: `false`

The `once` option allows you to set the animation to trigger only once when the component enters the viewport.

```vue
<Motion
  :in-view="{ x: 0 }"
  :in-view-options="{ once: true }"
/>
```
### `root`

The `root` option allows you to set the root element that the inView animation should be relative to.

```vue
<Motion
  :in-view="{ x: 0 }"
  :in-view-options="{ root: '#root' }"
/>
```
### `amount`

Default: `some`

The `amount` option allows you to set the `amount` of the component that should be in view for the animation to trigger.

You can set the `amount` to all, which means the animation will trigger when the entire component is in view.

or you can set a number, which means the animation will trigger when the component is in view by the `amount` of the component that is in view.

```vue
<Motion
  :in-view="{ x: 0 }"
  :in-view-options="{ amount: 'all' }"
/>
```

### `as`

The `as` prop allows you to set the HTML or SVG element that the `Motion` component should be rendered as.

```vue
<Motion
  as="div"
  class="w-10 h-10 bg-primary rounded-lg"
/>
```

### `asChild`

The `asChild` prop allows you to render a child component directly.

```vue
<Motion
  as-child
>
  <ChildComponent />
</Motion>
```
::alert{type="warning" icon="lucide:triangle-alert"}
  if you use `asChild`,and the `ChildComponent`'s root dom is `SVGElement`, you should set the `as` prop to determine the dom element type.
::
