docs/content/2.components/2.animate-presence.md, before:

---
title: Animate Presence
description: Animate components when they're removed from the Vue tree.
navigation.icon: 'uil:exit'
island: true
---

The `AnimatePresence` component enables you to animate components as they enter and exit the Vue tree when controlled by `v-if` or `v-show` directives.

## Import

```ts
import { AnimatePresence } from 'motion-v'
```

## Usage

<ComponentPreview name="exit" />

## Multiple

<ComponentPreview name="multiple" />

## Props

### `multiple`

- Default: `false`

`AnimatePresence` is based on `TransitionGroup` and `Transition`, when `multiple` is `true`, it will use `TransitionGroup` to animate multiple children.

### `mode`

- Default: `sync`

Decides how AnimatePresence handles entering and exiting children.

- `sync`: Children animate in/out as soon as they're added/removed.
- `wait`: The entering child will wait until the exiting child has animated out.
::alert{type="info" icon="lucide:info"}
  Note: Currently only renders a single child at a time.
::
- `popLayout`: Exiting children will be "popped" out of the page layout. This allows surrounding elements to move to their new layout immediately.

<ComponentPreview name="pop-layout" />

Commit message:

feat: update styles and enhance components with new animations and dialog integration
- Updated primary color variables in tailwind.css for consistency.
- Enhanced LoadingPage component with in-view options and improved transition effects.
- Modified demo components to adjust sizes and improve layout.
- Introduced a new Radix Dialog component with animation support.
- Expanded documentation to include new features and integration examples.

docs/content/2.components/2.animate-presence.md, after:

---
title: Animate Presence
description: Animate components when they're removed from the Vue tree.
navigation.icon: 'uil:exit'
island: true
---

The `AnimatePresence` component enables you to animate components as they enter and exit the Vue tree when controlled by `v-if` or `v-show` directives.

## Import

```ts
import { AnimatePresence } from 'motion-v'
```

## Usage

<ComponentPreview name="exit" />

## Multiple

<ComponentPreview name="multiple" />

## Integration with Radix

`AnimatePresence` can be seamlessly integrated with Radix Vue components. The following example demonstrates how to add enter and exit animations to a Radix Dialog:

<ComponentPreview name="radix-dialog" />

## Props

### `multiple`

- Default: `false`

`AnimatePresence` is based on `TransitionGroup` and `Transition`, when `multiple` is `true`, it will use `TransitionGroup` to animate multiple children.

### `mode`

- Default: `sync`

Decides how AnimatePresence handles entering and exiting children.

- `sync`: Children animate in/out as soon as they're added/removed.
- `wait`: The entering child will wait until the exiting child has animated out.
::alert{type="info" icon="lucide:info"}
  Note: Currently only render a single child at a time.
::
- `popLayout`: Exiting children will be "popped" out of the page layout. This allows surrounding elements to move to their new layout immediately.

<ComponentPreview name="pop-layout" />
