docs/content/2.components/3.layout-group.md, before:

---
title: LayoutGroup
navigation.icon: lucide:layout-grid
---

like `LayoutGroup` in framer-motion, the `LayoutGroup` will detect the layout changes of its children and apply the layout animations.

<ComponentPreview name="layout-group" />

## Props

### `id`

A unique identifier for the layout group. If not provided, the group will be identified by its context.

### `inherit`

Controls how the layout group inherits properties from its parent group. It can be:

- `true`: Inherit both id and `group`.
- `id`: Only inherit the id.
- `group`: Only inherit the `group`.

## `Slots`

### `default`: The default slot receives forceRender function:

- forceRender: A function that, when called, forces the slot Motion component to calculate its layout.

```vue
<LayoutGroup>
  <template #default="{ forceRender }">
    ...
    <Motion :layout="true" @click="forceRender">
    </Motion>
    ...
  </template>
</LayoutGroup>
```

## useLayoutGroup Hook

The `useLayoutGroup` hook provides access to the layout group context, allowing components to participate in the layoutGroup and respond to forced layout.

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
import { useLayoutGroup } from 'motion-v'

const { forceRender } = useLayoutGroup()
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <p>This component can be forced to update.</p>
    <button @click="forceRender">
      Force Update
    </button>
  </div>
</template>
```

Commit message:

fix: improve layout group documentation and update MotionState logic for child activation

docs/content/2.components/3.layout-group.md, after:

---
title: LayoutGroup
navigation.icon: lucide:layout-grid
---

like `LayoutGroup` in framer-motion, the `LayoutGroup` will detect the layout changes of its children and apply the layout animations.

<ComponentPreview name="layout-group" />

## Props

### `id`

A unique identifier for the layout group. If not provided, the group will be identified by its context.

### `inherit`

Controls how the layout group inherits properties from its parent group. It can be:

- `true`: Inherit both id and `group`.
- `id`: Only inherit the id.
- `group`: Only inherit the `group`.

## `Slots`

`default`: The default slot receives forceRender function:

- forceRender: A function that, when called, forces the slot Motion component to calculate its layout.

::alert{type="warning" icon="lucide:triangle-alert"}
  When a `Motion` component is wrapped by `LayoutGroup`, its update will trigger layout updates for all `Motion` components under the `LayoutGroup`, so it's better to trigger the `Motion` update instead of calling forceRender
::

```vue
<LayoutGroup>
  <template #default="{ forceRender }">
    ...
    <Motion :layout="true" @click="forceRender">
    </Motion>
    ...
  </template>
</LayoutGroup>
```

## useLayoutGroup

The `useLayoutGroup` hook provides access to the layout group context, allowing components to participate in the layoutGroup and respond to forced layout.

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
import { useLayoutGroup } from 'motion-v'

const { forceRender } = useLayoutGroup()
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <p>This component can be forced to update.</p>
    <button @click="forceRender">
      Force Update
    </button>
  </div>
</template>
```
