docs/content/4.motion-value/1.use-motion-value-event.md, before:

---
title: useMotionValueEvent
description:
navigation.icon: 'lucide:ear'
---

`useMotionValueEvent` manages a motion value event handler throughout the lifecycle of a vue component.

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
import { useMotionValue } from 'motion-v'

const x = useMotionValue(0)

useMotionValueEvent(x, 'animationStart', () => {
  console.log('animation has started')
})
</script>

<template>
  <Motion
    style:="{ x }"
  />
</template>
```

When the component is unmounted, event handlers will be safely cleaned up.

## Usage

Import from Motion Vue:

```ts
const color = useMotionValue('#00f')

useMotionValueEvent(color, 'change', (latest) => {
  console.log(latest)
})
```

Available events are:

- `change`
- `animationStart`
- `animationComplete`
- `animationCancel`

`change` events are provided the latest value of the motion value.

## Advanced

`useMotionValueEvent` is a helper function for a motion value's [on method](/motion-value/overview#on). With `on`, you can start listening to events whenever you like, for instance within an event handler. But remember to also unsubscribe when the component unmounts.

- [Motion React-useMotionValueEvent](https://motion.dev/docs/react-use-motion-value-event)

```ts
function doSomething() {}

const color = useMotionValue('#00f')
const unsub = color.on('change', doSomething)

onUnmounted(() => {
  unsub()
})
```

Commit message:

docs: add missing import section

docs/content/4.motion-value/1.use-motion-value-event.md, after:

---
title: useMotionValueEvent
description:
navigation.icon: 'lucide:ear'
---

`useMotionValueEvent` manages a motion value event handler throughout the lifecycle of a vue component.

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
import { useMotionValue } from 'motion-v'

const x = useMotionValue(0)

useMotionValueEvent(x, 'animationStart', () => {
  console.log('animation has started')
})
</script>

<template>
  <Motion
    style:="{ x }"
  />
</template>
```

When the component is unmounted, event handlers will be safely cleaned up.

## Usage

Import from Motion Vue:

```ts
import { useMotionValueEvent } from 'motion-v'
```

To add an event listener to a motion value, provide the value, event name and callback:

```ts
const color = useMotionValue('#00f')

useMotionValueEvent(color, 'change', (latest) => {
  console.log(latest)
})
```

Available events are:

- `change`
- `animationStart`
- `animationComplete`
- `animationCancel`

`change` events are provided the latest value of the motion value.

## Advanced

`useMotionValueEvent` is a helper function for a motion value's [on method](/motion-value/overview#on). With `on`, you can start listening to events whenever you like, for instance within an event handler. But remember to also unsubscribe when the component unmounts.

- [Motion React-useMotionValueEvent](https://motion.dev/docs/react-use-motion-value-event)

```ts
function doSomething() {}

const color = useMotionValue('#00f')
const unsub = color.on('change', doSomething)

onUnmounted(() => {
  unsub()
})
```
